Current affairs are messy to say the least. With increased tension between countries, and sometimes within countries, mayhem is starting to brew. Here’s a small recap of some of the most impactful events during this year.

On February 24th, Russia, under command of Putin, who pursued a career of politics for the majority of his life, started a full-out invasion of Ukraine. The news was an instant hit and took over headlines and social media pages. Meanwhile the Ukrainians were evacuated to neighbouring countries as quick as possible. As of writing this (23rd October), Russia has yet to resolve the conflict with Ukraine. Over a thousand companies pulled out from Russia markets, and Russian emigration rates are the highest since 1917. Whilst all this is happening, Russia imposed censorship on all types of media, including a ban on words like “war” and “invasion”. The reason behind this is unspoken of, yet most speculate it’s somewhere along the lines of propaganda. This signifies how poor leadership can lead a country awry, and how the leader’s decision doesn’t necessarily reflect the people.

On June 24th, America’s Supreme Court ruled the overturn of Roe v Wade, a landmark decision that’s been passed since 1973. This ruling gives individual states the ability to ban abortions should they see fit. Like other American politics this topic has 2 major "factions" - The pro-lifers who argue that unborn foetuses are still living humans and therefore aborting them could be argued as murder, and the pro-choicers who think that a woman should have the right to abort because they think a human should be able to freely decide on what should be done on their bodies. Both sides have their own points, and both ostracise others with mild propaganda and demonization. It is crucial to remember that you being right doesn't mean the other is wrong, especially with a topic as undefinable as ethics. Break down the barriers blocking consensus.

Let's end this with the unfortunate death of Queen Elizabeth II on the 8th of September. Born in 1926, Queen Elizabeth II has seen through  historical events. She was commonly joked as being immortal online due to her being old yet still relatively healthy and active, with online memes which revolve around her "secret ways of immortality". Queen Elizabeth II ruled Great Britain for 70 years and 214 days, making her reign the longest among the other monarchs in British history and any other female monarch ever. With death came the Queen's long deserved retirement, may she rest in peace with her family in heaven.

2022 was blooming with chaos and challenges, let's just hope 2023 will be much more tame, as enduring reddit's newfound habit of shifting to something totally different every week or two, though mildly entertaining, is starting to wear me out.
